pages/guides/data-scientist/geoparquet.mdx, before:

# Basics of Reading and Writing from GeoBase in GeoParquet

## Introduction

This guide will walk you through the process of loading GeoParquet files into a GeoPandas DataFrame and saving them to a "GeoBase" database. Additionally, it will cover how to read data from "GeoBase" and save it back to a GeoParquet file.

## Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following libraries installed:

- `geopandas`
- `sqlalchemy`
- `geoalchemy2`

You can install any missing libraries using pip:

```bash
pip install geopandas sqlalchemy geoalchemy2
```
## Cloning the GeoParquet Repository
First, clone the GeoParquet repository to obtain the example parquet file.
```sh
!git clone https://github.com/opengeospatial/geoparquet.git
```
## Writing GeoParquet to GeoBase
To load a GeoParquet file into a GeoPandas object, use the `geopandas.read_parquet` function. Then, save the GeoPandas object to GeoBase using the `geopandas.to_postgis` function.

#### Define the Path to Your GeoParquet File
```python
geoparquet_file = '/content/geoparquet/examples/example.parquet'
```

#### Read the GeoParquet File into a `GeoDataFrame`
```python
import geopandas as gpd

gdf = gpd.read_parquet(geoparquet_file)
gdf.head()
```

#### Define the Connection String for Your geobase Database
```python
from sqlalchemy import create_engine

db_connection_string = "postgresql://username:password@hostaddress.geobase.app:port/database"
engine = create_engine(db_connection_string)
```

#### Load the `GeoDataFrame` into geobase
```python
gdf.to_postgis(name="geoParquet_test", con=engine, if_exists='replace')
```
![geoparquet_test](./images/geoparquet_test.png)
## Reading from GeoBase and Saving as GeoParquet
Data can be loaded from GeoBase and saved as GeoParquet by following the steps below:

- Load data from GeoBase as a `GeoDataFrame`
- Save data as GeoParquet by calling the `to_parquet` method

#### Read Data from GeoBase
```python
sql = """
SELECT * FROM parks
"""
df = gpd.read_postgis(sql, con=engine, geom_col="location")
```

#### Save Data as GeoParquet
```python
df.to_parquet("example.parquet")
```
The file with a `.parquet` extension will be saved in the desired directory.

Commit message:

add getting started by connecting qgis and geobase

pages/guides/data-scientist/geoparquet.mdx, after:

# Basics of Reading and Writing from Geobase in GeoParquet

## Introduction

This guide will walk you through the process of loading GeoParquet files into a GeoPandas DataFrame and saving them to a "Geobase" database. Additionally, it will cover how to read data from "Geobase" and save it back to a GeoParquet file.

## Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following libraries installed:

- `geopandas`
- `sqlalchemy`
- `geoalchemy2`

You can install any missing libraries using pip:

```bash
pip install geopandas sqlalchemy geoalchemy2
```
## Cloning the GeoParquet Repository
First, clone the GeoParquet repository to obtain the example parquet file.
```sh
!git clone https://github.com/opengeospatial/geoparquet.git
```
## Writing GeoParquet to Geobase
To load a GeoParquet file into a GeoPandas object, use the `geopandas.read_parquet` function. Then, save the GeoPandas object to Geobase using the `geopandas.to_postgis` function.

#### Define the Path to Your GeoParquet File
```python
geoparquet_file = '/content/geoparquet/examples/example.parquet'
```

#### Read the GeoParquet File into a `GeoDataFrame`
```python
import geopandas as gpd

gdf = gpd.read_parquet(geoparquet_file)
gdf.head()
```

#### Define the Connection String for Your geobase Database
```python
from sqlalchemy import create_engine

db_connection_string = "postgresql://username:password@hostaddress.geobase.app:port/database"
engine = create_engine(db_connection_string)
```

#### Load the `GeoDataFrame` into geobase
```python
gdf.to_postgis(name="geoParquet_test", con=engine, if_exists='replace')
```
![geoparquet_test](./images/geoparquet_test.png)
## Reading from Geobase and Saving as GeoParquet
Data can be loaded from Geobase and saved as GeoParquet by following the steps below:

- Load data from Geobase as a `GeoDataFrame`
- Save data as GeoParquet by calling the `to_parquet` method

#### Read Data from Geobase
```python
sql = """
SELECT * FROM parks
"""
df = gpd.read_postgis(sql, con=engine, geom_col="location")
```

#### Save Data as GeoParquet
```python
df.to_parquet("example.parquet")
```
The file with a `.parquet` extension will be saved in the desired directory.
