pages/guides/gis-analyst/getting-started.mdx, before:

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# A Guide to Connecting QGIS and GeoBase for GIS Analysts

## Introduction
Geospatial Information Systems (GIS) play a crucial role in analyzing, managing, and visualizing spatial data. The powerful tools often used by GIS analysts includes **QGIS**.

- **QGIS** is an open-source GIS application that allows users to view, edit, and analyze geospatial data.

This documentation will guide you through setting up **QGIS** with **GeoBase**.
<Steps>
  
### Setting Up QGIS
**QGIS** is a versatile desktop GIS application that supports a wide range of vector and raster formats. It allows users to perform spatial analysis, map production, and geospatial data management.
To setup QGIS on your system, you can follow the official installation guide: [https://qgis.org/en/site/forusers/download.html](https://qgis.org/en/site/forusers/download.html)

### Connecting QGIS to GeoBase
Connecting QGIS to GeoBase is very similar to connecting to PostGress, you need to create a new PostgreSQL database connection.

To connect with GeoBase use the `PostgreSQL` tab in the Browser panel, right-click on the PostgreSQL option to create a `New Connection`.

![geobase_connection](./images/qgis_postgre_connection_dark.png) 
{/* <picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcSet="./images/qgis_connection.png"/>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcSet="./images/qgis_connection.png"/>
  <img alt="GeoBase Connection" srcSet="pages/guides/gis-analyst/images/geobase_connection.png"/>
</picture> */}

The connection details include:
- **Name**: A name for the connection.
- **Host**: The host address of the database.
- **Port**: The port number for the database service.
- **Database**: The name of the database.
- **Username**: The username to access the database.
- **Password**: The password for the database user.

To obtain these connection details, navigate to `GeoBase` and click on `Project Settings` in the left navigation panel. You will find the required information under the `Connection Info`.

![geobase_connection](./images/geobase_connection_dark.png)

### Loading and Visualize Data from GeoBase into QGIS
As a GIS analyst, you can visualize spatial data using QGIS. You can load shapefiles, GeoJSON files, and other geospatial data formats into QGIS for analysis and visualization.

After connecting QGIS to GeoBase, you can load data from GeoBase into QGIS by clicking `PostgreSQL` in Browser Panel and then selcting your databse.
To visualize the data, right-click on the table you want to visualize in `public` scheme and select `Add Layer to Project` or you can drag and drop table in `Layers` Panel.

![qgis_visualize_data](./images/qgis_visualize_data_dark.png)

</Steps>
Now you are ready to start working with QGIS and GeoBase as a GIS analyst.
The combination of these tools will help you analyze and visualize spatial data effectively.

Commit message:

add getting started by connecting qgis and geobase

pages/guides/gis-analyst/getting-started.mdx, after:

import { Steps, Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# A Guide to Connecting QGIS and Geobase for GIS Analysts

## Introduction
Geospatial Information Systems (GIS) play a crucial role in analyzing, managing, and visualizing spatial data. One of the most popular tools used by GIS analysts is **QGIS**. **QGIS** is an open-source desktop GIS application that allows users to view, edit, and analyze geospatial data.

This documentation will guide you through setting up **QGIS** with **Geobase**. By the end of this guide you will be able to:
- Setup QGIS
- Connect QGIS to Geobase
- Visualize Geospatial Data

<Steps>
  
### Setting Up QGIS

Follow the official installation guide: [https://qgis.org/en/site/forusers/download.html](https://qgis.org/en/site/forusers/download.html)

<Callout type="info" emoji="💚">
QGIS is open source so don't forget to support the project by [donating](https://qgis.org/funding/donate/) to the QGIS project. 
</Callout>

### Connecting QGIS to Geobase
Connecting QGIS to Geobase is very similar to connecting to PostgreSQL, you need to create a new PostgreSQL database connection.

To connect with Geobase use the `PostgreSQL` tab in the Browser panel, right-click on the PostgreSQL option to create a `New Connection`.

![geobase_connection](./images/qgis_postgre_connection_dark.png) 
{/* <picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcSet="./images/qgis_connection.png"/>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcSet="./images/qgis_connection.png"/>
  <img alt="Geobase Connection" srcSet="pages/guides/gis-analyst/images/geobase_connection.png"/>
</picture> */}

The connection details include:
- **Name**: A name for the connection.
- **Host**: The host address of the database.
- **Port**: The port number for the database service.
- **Database**: The name of the database.
- **Username**: The username to access the database.
- **Password**: The password for the database user.

To obtain these connection details, navigate to `Geobase` and click on `Project Settings` in the left navigation panel. You will find the required information under the `Connection Info`.

![geobase_connection](./images/geobase_connection_dark.png)

### Loading and Visualize Data from Geobase into QGIS

After connecting QGIS to Geobase, you can load data from Geobase into QGIS by clicking `PostgreSQL` in Browser Panel and then selcting your databse.
To visualize the data, right-click on the table you want to visualize in `public` scheme and select `Add Layer to Project` or you can drag and drop table in `Layers` Panel.

<Callout type="warning" emoji="⚠️">
Make sure to select tables from the `public` schema when adding layers to the project. The other schemas are not for manipulation and are used for internal purposes.
</Callout>

![qgis_visualize_data](./images/qgis_visualize_data_dark.png)

</Steps>
Now you are ready to start working with QGIS and Geobase as a GIS analyst.
The combination of these tools will help you analyze and visualize spatial data effectively.
